Hey, it's Marie Forleo and you are watching
MarieTV, the place to be to create a business
and life that you love. Now, if you're someone
who's interested in a science-backed method
to grow an unshakeable core of strength and
calm and happiness, our guest today is here
to show us the way.
Dr. Rick Hanson is a psychologist, Senior
Fellow of The Greater Good Science Center
at UC Berkeley and a New York Times best-selling
author. His books, including Resilient, Hardwiring
Happiness, Buddha’s Brain, Just One Thing,
and Mother Nurture are available in 26 languages.
He's spoken at NASA, Oxford, Stanford, Harvard,
and other major universities, and taught in
meditation centers worldwide. Dr. Hanson's
work has been featured on the BBC, CBS, and
NPR among others.
Rick, thank you so much for being here. Thanks
for making the trip. We were talking off camera,
I have talked about you and your work so many
times and it has been such a source of education
and inspiration. So, I really appreciate you
being here.
It's an honor to be here. Really.
Thank you. So, take me back to the beginning.
You shared that as a young child you realized
that there was great unhappiness in the world.
In school, in your family, everywhere. How
did that realization really shape and then
form the work of your life?
Well, thank you for going there. Right off
the top.
Yeah.
Well, first off, I've done a lot of work with
little kids and kids in general and one thing
that really strikes me is that so many people
knew things when they were young that were
really important. Many of which they couldn't
put into words. When I look back at my memories
and I have a lot of them of early childhood,
there was a quality, sort of in the wallpaper,
of the experience of this haunting, poignant
sense I've had of a wistful sadness and a
recognition that there was so much unnecessary
unhappiness. Even in a pretty ordinary situation
which I grew up. There was just a lot of household
stress, tension, unfulfilled longings, et
cetera.
And that really set me on my way 'cause I
had a strong sense of that and I wanted to
do something about it. But, I had no idea
what to do. So, that began things and then
I had actually a turning point. I was just
thinking about that related to what we were
saying off camera, that in my mid-teens, and
I knew it happened when I was reading Dune
'cause I was a science fiction geek and the
main character was 15 at the same time.
I had this insight, even though I was really
unhappy and quite neurotic, the thing I could
do no matter about the past was to learn and
grow from here. I could get better from here
a little bit every day. I could learn how
to talk to girls. I could learn how to deal
with my parents. I could learn how to deal
with my mind. I could get a little stronger,
a little more skillful every day. That was
full of hope 'cause I couldn't do anything
about the past, but I could grow and learn
from here.
Then, related to that, the most important
thing in a sense, is knowing how to grow.
Yes.
How can you help yourself, steepen your growth
curve, your healing curve, as you go through
life? That really set me on my way.
Did you have that belief that you could grow
and improve? Was that something that you felt
like was there before you started getting
into these books and getting inspired? Or
was it something that you feel like was triggered
as reading these books and noticing these
characters actually developing?
I think that was deep inside me and where
that comes from I don't really know.
Yeah.
But, I think that's one of the most essential
things for a person to have inside themselves.
This quality of being on their own side. And
I've been a long time psychotherapist and
maybe you would not be surprised, but many
people would be surprised how few people actually
have that stance of being a friend to themselves
or being for themselves. Not against others
but for themselves. But, if you don't have
that, you're kind of dead in the water.
Yeah.
And for whatever reason, I had that quality
inside me. I was miserable but I knew I didn't
want to be miserable and I was gonna figure
my way out of this.
Yeah.
What's your phrase? Figureoutable?
Everything is figureoutable. Yeah. We were
talking about, so I am now giving Dr. Rick
and all of my guests, they can have their
water in our Everything is Figureoutable mugs.
Oh, I am gonna treasure that.
Oh, yeah. You're gonna take that home with
you.
Yeah. A hundred percent.
I think it's so wonderful, though. One of
my beliefs, I'm curious if you share this
as well, is for those watching who feel like
"Okay, I'm listening Rick and I'm listening
Marie, but what if I didn't have that sense
that I could grow and get better? Is that
something I can learn?" I'm a big yes. Are
you a big yes?
A hundred percent. In my experience and observation,
and in the research. People can acquire, and
there are fancy terms for this, a sense of
agency, efficacy, or feeling more like a hammer
and less like a nail. And the point about
that is that this is not about positive thinking.
It's not about denying your situation or how
you feel inside. If anything, it's about developing
the resources inside to deal with the really,
really hard things.
Yes.
It is, for me, extremely hopeful that if you
look for ways in which you can make a little
thing happen like you chose to pick up the
cup.
Yes.
I love these little examples. Like, reach
for the salt instead of the pepper. Know what
it feels like to not say something by choice
or to choose to say something. What's that
feel like? And then when you know what that
feels like, to be the chooser, or the poker,
or the restrainer, the one who puts on the
brakes or the one who hits the gas pedal,
then you can start applying that sense of
agency to other bigger parts of your life.
I love it. So, one of the things that you
have shared is this thing, we have this three
pound piece of tofu or cauliflower in between
or ears called our brain, and one of the questions
I was curious to hear how you would describe
this 'cause I love how you articulate sometimes
complex neurological phenomenon in very, very
simple to understand terms. What is the distinction
between our brain and our mind?
It's such a huge question. There are many
ways of approaching it and it's great that
you went right there. The neuroscientific,
psychological way of relating to this is that
the brain is the meat. It's the hardware.
It's physical. It's the stuff. And this nervous
system that we have which took 600 million
years to evolve, thank you Mother Nature,
has a function. And its function is to represent
information. Now, that kind of stops you right
there but if you think about it we deal with
this all the time. Like, I walked here today
and I was dealing with traffic signals that
were red, yellow, or green. That's material
in a sense. Energy and light are part of material
reality but the meaning of red, the meaning
of green, is not physical. It's information.
Yes.
So, right there you have the distinction between
matter that exists and also information, which
also exists which is intangible.
Yes.
So, the information flowing through the nervous
system, the motor systems are tracking your
sensory systems. This smells good, swim towards
it. Ew, this tastes bad, swim away. That is
the basis for our experiences. Like, right
now you and I are hearing, seeing people listening
to this. Hearing, seeing, thinking. Those
experiences are made of information, in effect.
They are immaterial. They exist, but they're
not tangible. The takeaway point for me is
you can use your experiences, you can use
your mind, the flow of thought where you rest
your attention, what you do with your feelings,
you can use that because it enlists underlying
neural processes. So, you can use your mind
to enlist these underlying neural processes
that represent your mind to actually change
your brain because the repeated patterns of
neural activity leave lasting traces behind.
Like water coming down a hillside.
Yes.
And that means fundamentally as a take away,
you have the power inside yourself every minute
of every day to use your mind, to change your
brain, the change your mind for the better.
Yes. I get so excited by this stuff and i
love the phrase that I learned in one of your
earlier books Hardwiring Happiness, it just
really solidified home that neurons that fire
together, wire together. It just got me so
excited because it was this scientific affirmation
of something intuitively that I've always
believed in my life.
I know. Yeah.
I feel like it's so powerful for everyone
listening that even if you feel as though
you were born into certain circumstances and
there are certain pain and trauma in your
past, that that doesn't have to be your destiny
moving forward.
That's right. One of the things that struck
me about honestly your approach in your programs
was that clearly you have what Carol Dweck
at Stanford calls a growth mindset.
Yes. I love Carol Dweck.
Yeah. A learning mindset.
Yes.
Exactly right. Whatever this truth about the
past is the truth but we can grow and learn
from here.
Yes.
So, let’s move on to your latest book Resilient.
Mmhmm.
Which is fantastic. Congratulations.
Oh, thank you.
So, there are big problems in the world and
all of us have those everyday stresses. We
have illnesses, we have difficulties, we have
disappointments. Let's talk about the importance
of growing our inner strengths. You share
that the world may be chaotic and let you
down but you can count on is growing the strengths
inside of yourself.
Mmhmm.
Talk to me about this focus on resilience
and why it's so important right now.
Yeah. So, it's easy to think of positive psychology
or self help as like a magic carpet ride.
Yeah.
Just do this thing, do this gratitude practice,
do this mantra and you will be transported.
All of that's pretty good but what about the
real world?
Yeah.
What about everyday stresses, everyday difficulties,
and what about the really, really hard things
in your life? Walking through the city streets
of Manhattan today reminded of Thoreau's line,
“most people lead lives of quiet desperation.”
So, if we're gonna deal with both the worst
day of our life and thrive every day of our
life. We need resilience. We need these inner
strengths. So, where does resilience come
from? It's kind of a common word these days.
Resilience comes from capabilities and know-how
and determination and positive emotions that
you have inside yourself. So, if you need
to tap into your inner supply. So, I've done
a lot of stuff in the wilderness and rock
climbing and so forth.
Yeah.
So, you think about what's in your backpack.
You know?
Yeah.
What's more important than what's in your
wallet when you're out in the boonies?
Yes.
What's in your backpack? Is there fortitude?
Is there happiness? Is there care and concern
for other people?
Yeah.
So, those are the important things. How do
you grow them. That's where this fancy phrase
comes in: experience-dependent neuroplasticity.
This idea that through focused attention and
sustained experience of something that's useful
to you, you can actually hardwire it into
your nervous system. So, more and more you
feel like it's with you wherever you go.
Yes.
So many people feel like they're running on
fumes. Running on empty. They just don't have
it inside. So, how do you actually build up
the good stuff inside? The key is really simple.
It's to look for those experiences that are
useful for you, that are authentic. And then
don't skitter on to the next thing. Take a
breath or two or longer to feel it in your
body, to stay with it, focus on what's rewarding
about it, and that will drive the neural processes
of installation. That will hard wire and actually
in effect, record the song of experience into
your nervous system. So more and more you
have a with you wherever you go.
I just think this is so exciting and wonderful.
And that's why I was so thrilled when you
said yes to come on the show, because this
is stuff... Again, I feel like this is the
reason I do what I do in life because when
I started to discover basic self help concepts,
learned how to meditate when I was 17, a bunch
of these different things. I was like, wait
a minute, why am I just learning this now?
And I feel like this keeps happening.
Yeah.
And we're not taught these things in school.
I know, it's amazing.
Right? And children aren't taught that you
have to kind of develop these tools and put
them in your backpack. And I love this analogy,
and I know this is one of the things that
I've talked about on MarieTV, quoting your
work, one of the things that we really have
to be aware of is negativity bias.
Yeah.
So for folks that didn't catch that episode,
can you tell us what negativity bias is, and
then give us some pointers on how to navigate
it, because I feel like that's one of the
things that we have to keep watch out for
when we want to really savor those good things.
A hundred percent true. So if you want to
grow the good inside yourself...
Yeah.
You have to experience it, number one. But
most important, once you're experiencing it,
you need to internalize it. That's a general
truth. That general truth is really sharpened
by one of the most powerful findings in neuroscience.
The brain's negativity bias, which I say is
like having a brain that's like Velcro for
bad experiences, but Teflon for good ones.
And there are so many everyday examples. Ten
things happen in a relationship in a day,
nine are good, one is irritating. What's the
one you obsess about?
The irritating one, of course.
Yeah, exactly right.
And people in my audience, I hear about this
all the time, they'll be like, "Marie, I'm
so afraid of getting criticism. I'm so afraid
of being judged. I run this business and someone
left this really nasty, ignorant comment."
Oh, yeah.
And that's the one that stays, not the hundred
happy customers.
A Hundred percent. So I'm a writer...
Yeah.
...and you know, it's that one star review
on Amazon...
Yes.
...that really bugs you.
My friend, Author Seth Godin, he actually
doesn't read reviews anymore.
Yeah.
And I think, because he's like, "You know
what? Don't need them. I'm going to keep writing."
Because the negativity bias of our brain is
real.
It is very real. And why do we have it? And
it's really interesting to reflect on the
fact that the negativity bias is not your
fault. I've had people actually tell me, "Thanks,
Rick, you actually made me feel okay about
the fact that I'm anxious a lot.” Or “I'm
still affected by bad things that have happened
to me." It's natural. And the reason for that,
is that is the nervous system evolved over
600 million years. Our ancestors had to, in
effect, get carrots, like food and avoid sticks,
like predators or aggression inside your band.
Both are important, but here's the difference.
If you don't get a carrot today, back in the
Stone Age, you'll have a chance at one tomorrow,
but if you fail to avoid that stick today,
whack. No more carrots forever.
You're done.
You're done. Yeah.
It's lights out.
Yeah, so, I know. So you can watch your own
mind. It's really interesting to watch your
mind...
Yeah.
...routinely does these five things, the brain's
designed to do them. Look for bad news, over
focus upon it. Bad news also inside your body
and in your mind. Focus upon it, overreact
to it. That one little light in the old inner
dashboard, this flashing red. And then fast
track it into memory. Once burned, twice shy,
never forget. For example, there's research
that shows that one negative interaction in
a relationship has much more impact than several
positive interactions. That was a takeaway
for me when I was in grad school and I came
upon it. I thought, "Wow, what's my wife's
life been with me recently?"
I mean, I kind of.
We got to tip those scales.
That's right. Game here.
Yeah.
Yeah. And then literally the brain, the fifth
thing it does through cortisol, the stress
hormone becomes sensitized to the negative.
We become extra prickly, extra irritable,
extra anxious...
Yes.
...which then creates more negative experiences
the next day.
Absolutely.
So, it's by design. But what we can do is
feel the negative. Feel it, let it flow. And
then what am I going to do about it? How can
I grow the good inside myself for my own sake
and other people everyday forward.
Love it. Another metaphor that's wonderful
is loving the zoo in your head, really honoring
the lizard, the mouse, and the monkey. And
again, I love this because I'm always a student
of brain science. And I feel like this is
such a wonderful way to help us all remember
it. So can you talk about the zoo in our mind?
Oh sure.
Or brains, I should say.
So, I think a lot of us, I certainly do, have
this feeling that what's inside is sort of
like a zoo, of all these different voices
tugging in different directions. And that's
partly related to the three stage evolution
of the brain. Like building a house from the
bottom up in three floors. So we have the
more or less reptilian brainstem, very focused
on safety. On top of it we have the mammalian
subcortex with strange parts of the brain,
like the amygdala or the hippocampus, that's
very focused on satisfaction. And then we
have the primate human neocortex sitting on
top of that, that's very focused on relationships,
on our need for connection. So, in effect,
each of us has inside themselves a kind of
inner lizard, mouse, and monkey.
Can I ask you a question?
Yeah.
So the amygdala is not a part of the reptilian,
it's a part of the second level?
Correct.
Really.
It's part of the subcortex that sits on top
of the ancient nerve, the brainstem.
Thank you for teaching me that.
Oh yeah. So it's oriented around fear and
alarm. So it definitely helps us with safety.
But the amygdala also lights up when we see
opportunities. There's actually a research
paper that has a wonderful title, “The Joyful
Amygdala.”
I love this.
I know.
This is exciting.
It is. And we have the opportunity to. Research
shows us, you can train your amygdala to shift
out of a kind of grumpy amygdala...
Yeah.
...into more like of a joyful amygdala. You're
still going to see threats. You were still
going to see red lights and angry faces. But
you're also going to be able to see many more
opportunities in your life. And a typical
life is full of them. So that's anyway, that's
the brain. And so my takeaway from all that
is, okay, we have this structure inside us.
It's very real. There's no way around it.
We have these needs for safety, satisfaction,
and connection. What are we going to do?
One of the things we can do is look for those
authentic opportunities every day to register
an enoughness of safety. We're so scared,
we're like scared little critters. And enoughness
of satisfaction, of fullness already, a sense
of contentment and gratitude and also, an
enoughness of relatedness. It would be good
to have more five star reviews. It'd be nice
to have more people like you. And still there
can be a sense of connection already. So if
you do that routinely, you start filling yourself
up from the inside out and I have this jokey
phrase, look for those opportunities each
day to pet the lizard, feed the mouse, and
hug the monkey.
When I was thinking about feeding the mouse,
I was like petting the lizard, totally got
it. Feeding the mouse, it's like I want to
give my mouse some cheese.
Yes. Look for satisfaction.
Yeah.
Beauty. These lovely flowers.
Yes, yes, yes.
You get these things done every day.
And then the primate in us, right?
Oh yeah.
That connection. I feel like every time I've
seen these wonderful studies and the work
that Jane Goodall has done...
Yeah.
...and it's like you just see the connection
between these primates and it's like, yeah,
that's part of us.
Oh yeah. Absolutely. If you think about it,
back in the Serengeti being exiled was a death
sentence.
Yes.
And the nice thing also about hugging the
monkey, is that it meets all three needs,
because it meets our need for connection,
but it's also very rewarding.
Yes.
Like right now, really nice sense of connection.
And then a social experiences are also reassuring.
They're a safety signal. Think about a child
that wants to connect or people in general
want to find a secure base. So I'd say that
love is the universal medicine.
Yes.
It's the multivitamin.
It is the multivitamin. One of the cornerstones
of the practical work in this book, and there's
so much, is about taking our experiences and
using them to build resiliency. Taking a state,
I love this, and turning it into a trait,
something more permanent. Any thoughts about
how we can use both are positive and our negative
experiences to really turn something from
a state into a trait?
Well you really nailed I think the key question.
And as a frame, so I think the dirty little
secret in so much clinical work...
Yes.
...as well as in coaching, human resources,
mindfulness training. I'm a longtime meditater
like you. I was actually a little older than
you, so I'm impressed that you were just 17
when you started meditating.
Yeah. I wasn't consistent. I got more consistent.
Like my 20s, I was a mess.
Yeah, yeah.
I fell out of it a little bit, but I got better
with it.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, the dirty little secret
is we're good at having states. We're good
at having experiences.
Yeah.
Positive thoughts, positive emotions, sensations,
connections, we're good at that. Most of them
wash through the brain, like water through
a sieve, while the negative ones are caught
each time.
Yes.
Negativity bias, again. We waste them ourselves.
So the opportunity is to help our experiences
leave a lasting trace behind in physical changes
of neural structure or function. Without those
physical changes, we've left all that money
on the table and by definition there's no
lasting value. It's haunting and profound
to really let that sink in. So the question
then becomes, as you move through your day,
half a dozen times a day, maybe just on the
fly, and maybe once or twice on something
really big, each day, how can you increase
the conversion rate of those states to traits?
How can you actually help the nervous system
change for the better?
That's what's called positive neuroplasticity,
and it's really my specialty. That's what
I'm especially interested in because if you
think of it, learning is the super power of
super powers.
Yes.
It's the one that brings the rest of them.
Just like you've said, that growth mindset.
Yes.
So the question is really how to do it. There
are a lot of details about it that can be
applied in different situations, but the essence
is super simple. When you're already having
some kind of useful experience, which could
be an insight you might realize, "Okay, it
goes better with my partner, if I lean in,
rather than out, when I'm having a tricky
conversation." I had to learn that one. Whatever
it might be, now that you're having that song
playing, how do you turn on the inner recorder,
on your inner iPod as it were?
Well, stay with it for a breath or two or
longer. Isn't it haunting how rapidly people
skitter on to the next thing...
Yes.
...before the current reasonably good thing
has a chance to sink in? Stay with it for
a breath or two or longer. Second, try to
feel it in your body. As you said earlier,
those neurons that fire together, will wire
together. So it's kind of mechanical. Keep
them firing, have as many firing as possible
as you feel it in your body. As any good kindergarten
teacher knows, embodied experience is what
we learned from.
Yes.
And then third, focus on what's rewarding
about it, what's meaningful or enjoyable.
Technically that will increase dopamine and
norepinephrine activity in your brain.
I had to look up how to pronounce that one
because I kept want to go someplace else,
but thank you.
Yeah. These little neurotransmitters. These
little molecular systems. What they do when
you focus on what's rewarding is they flag
experiences as keepers for protection as they
become consolidated technically in the long-term
storage. That's a very pleasurable thing to
do, the three things I'm describing. No one
needs to know you're doing it. On the outside,
if you have to, you can look really miserable
and uptight and concerned, but inside you
could be like, "Yeah, take it in. Take in
the good. Help it really land. I want that
to go with me wherever I go."
I like that. That's actually fun. There was
an antidote you write about to disappointment
and envy. I thought that it is so simple and
so profound and so beautiful this idea of
being happy for others. I feel like in the
world that we live in and of course, people
will undoubtedly stumble upon this video,
whether it's through our email list or through
social media. Speaking of social media, I
feel like that's the place I'm always advising
people to spend less time on because it is...
I talk about comparison hangovers.
That's a great phrase.
When I was in college, I drank this horrible
stuff called Goldschläger. It was like this
terrible liqueur with gold flakes through
it. I totally drank way too much and threw
up in the bushes, but I call comparing yourself
to others like doing shots of Compareschläger.
It's going to make you sick.
That's true.
You're going to be in bed for days. You'll
have no clue about your own greatness. I feel
like we should talk more about this antidote
to disappointment and envy, like being happy
for others. Talk to me about that.
Well, first off, the naming of the antidote
is great because if you think about it, we
have various needs, we have various issues.
What's the inner resource that would be matched
to it? It's like if you have a flat tire,
you could put all the gas in your tank you
want. It won't solve the problem. It's not
matched to it. For example, if people are
worried about something for themselves or
others and they do gratitude practice or someone
compliments on how they look today, that's
nice, but it doesn't address the actual need.
What's the antidote? That's a really useful
thing to focus on what you named here.
If you think about it, what if it were more
present in my mind would really, really help
me these days, would help me with my family,
would help with my work, with my long standing
issues? What would be the good thing to really,
really grow? Then when you know what that
is, it's so powerful to look for one or more
opportunities a day to experience some sense
of it or something that supports that antidote.
Your own special Vitamin C I call it for which
you really need inside, what will actually
really fill that hole that in your heart.
Then you find a little experience of it, that's
a high value growth opportunity.
You don't want to let that one sail on by.
Focus on that one. That's the general idea
of antidotes. Then just as you say, for envy,
a traditional notion in Buddhist practice,
there are these four immeasurables, as they're
called, or heavenly ways of experiencing things.
One of them is to be glad for the good fortune
of others. As the Dalai Lama says, "If you
can be happy that others are happy, you will
always be happy because there's always somebody
somewhere who's happy," right?
Yes.
I have done meditation retreats where I was
sitting there doing practices on being glad
for the success that others had that I didn't
have. And that really, whatever the benefit
might have been for them, it helped me, as
you say, feel less envious. Envy is like taking
poison and waiting for others to die.
Absolutely. Whenever I've had that in my own
life and looking at someone and I'm like,
"Well, if he did it or she did it, I can do
it too." They're an example for me to be inspired
by. They're showing me possibilities that
I may not have ever even considered before
had it not been for them being brave and stepping
out and doing this inventive work or whatever
it is. I loved this, just idea of being happy
for others was beautiful. I want to wrap on
this. You have two brain strategies to share
with us that can change your lives, the two
brain hacks so to speak about not marinating
and taking in.
Let's just drive this home because it does
feel like as simple and direct as these are,
they're the power buttons that can change
everything.
It's totally great what you're talking about.
One is when you appreciate how quick the brain
is and how biased it is to taking in negative
experiences, it's like a sponge for the negative.
The key distinction is between mindful awareness
of something negative, physical pain, worry
about something, internal sense of pressure,
whatever it might be. Mindful awareness of
that in which you're holding it in a space
of untroubled awareness is completely different
from marinating in it, from ruminating about
it, from being preoccupied, looping around
that track in hell, digging in a little deeper
each time you go around it. Yuck.
I think for many people what's transformative
for them is to realize that they don't need
to do that. There's a teacher of mine at one
point. He said, "Think the same crazy thought
again and again. That's okay, but 10 is enough,"
right? At some point you just go, "I'm not
learning anything else from this. There's
no more value here for me. I'm going to move
on." That's one of the big takeaways. It's
the feeling that your inner being is like
a temple. Here's a maybe potentially gross
metaphor. I grew up with dogs. Temples have
dogs. Sometimes they come in. Maybe they leave
a mess.
What do you do? If you hate the dog or attack
the dog, that's just more mess in your temple.
You got to shoo the dog out of the temple,
maybe prevent it from coming in the next time,
and then clean the mess up before it stains
the floor. That's to me the proper way to
approach it, and to realize you have to do
that. It doesn't mean suppressing your feelings.
It means experiencing them in a space of awareness
and then helping them on out the door. That's
a huge takeaway.
The other one, exactly like you said, is to
have a learning orientation that says, "You
know, whatever has happened to me so far and
whatever the tough hand that's been dealt
me in this life, I can everyday look for these
little opportunities to experience something
good either because I'm just noticing it happening
usually or occasionally I get something good
going. Either way it's now present in my mind.
I'm going to help it sink into my soul. I'm
going to give myself the gift and kind of
an intimacy with my own experience moment
to moment.
“I'm going to give myself the gift of receiving
this to grow it inside myself both for happiness
and to have more strengths inside that enable
me to deal with tough things, and to have
more inside myself that I can then offer to
other people."
Rick, thank you so much for the work that
you do in the world. I hope you keep writing
books because I really adore them, and everyone,
you have to not only get Resilient, but all
of his other titles as well. Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Now, Rick and I would love to hear from you.
We talked about so much good stuff today.
I'm curious. What's the biggest insight that
you're taking away, and most important, how
can you put that insight into action right
now? Leave a comment below and let us know.
Now as always, the best conversations happen
at the magical land of MarieForleo.com. Get
your butt over there and leave a comment now.
While you're there, be sure to subscribe to
our email list so you can become an MF Insider.
You'll get instant access to an audio I created
called How To Get Anything You Want, plus
some exclusive content and special giveaways
and some personal updates from me that I don't
share anywhere else. Stay on your game and
keep going for your dreams because the world
needs that very special gift that only you
have. Thank you so much for watching and I'll
catch you next time one MarieTV.
Are you tired of talking into an empty void?
Are you ready for more sales, more clients
and more raving fans? Take our free seven-day
writing class at thecopycure.com./
Repeated patterns of neural activity leave
lasting traces behind, like water coming down
a hillside. That means fundamentally as a
takeaway, you have the power inside yourself
every minute of everyday to use your mind,
to change your brain, to change your mind
for the better.
Yes.